The President: Okay, go ahead.
Who's going to make the
first presentation?
I want to buy something.
(laughter)
But only if it's Made
in America, right?
(laughter)
Well, I want to
thank you all.
(applause)
And Michael was a
supporter of ours right
from the beginning, which
I really appreciate.
It's good to see you here.
It's fantastic, and I
actually bought a couple
of pillows, and
they're very good.
I have to tell you,
they're great.
(laughter)
I've slept so much
better ever since.
(laughter)
Thank you very
much Michael.
Good afternoon, and
welcome to the White House.
We're here today to
continue our celebration
of American manufacturing
as part of Made in America Week.
The leaders and innovators
around this table create
the products that fill our
homes, defend our nation,
and enrich our lives, and
each one of these products
proudly carries the
label Made in the U. S. A.
Do you remember in the old
days we used to say Made
in the U. S.
A.? That was when we
really had a great pride
in our product, and you do
but, unfortunately, we've
lost a little something,
but we're gaining it back
very quickly.
You see the stock
market hit a new high.
Jobs are the lowest
they've been, the best
jobs report we've had
in I think 16 years.
Unemployment numbers
fantastic, how we're
doing, but we're also
going to take care of the
95 million people out
there that aren't working,
and we have to remember
that's not really part
of the statistic.
I've been talking about
that for a long time.
And when we got those
great reports I kept
saying, you know, those
numbers, whether it's 4.2,
4.3: I said for a long
time they don't matter,
but now I accept those
numbers very proudly.
I say they do matter.
But we're doing very well
with the jobs and the job
reports and we're doing
very well with companies.
We're really moving along.
From day one my
administration has been
fighting to bring back our
manufacturing jobs, and to
crack down on foreign
countries that cheat,
a lot of them.
We will end the theft of
American prosperity, and
we will stand up for our
companies, our factories,
and our workers.
Is that okay
with you Michael?
Good?
(applause)
Michael Lindell:
(inaudible)
The President:
Made in America is more
than a label or a product,
and it's just something so
important to us.
It's a stamp
of excellence.
It's a badge of honor
and a tribute to the
tremendous skill of the
working men and women who
design and build these
incredible masterpieces
and different
products of all types.
When American workers have
a level playing field,
they cannot be beaten.
They have not had a level
playing field in a long
time, but you see
what's happening.
Step-by-step we've gotten
rid of regulations and a
lot more are coming.
We have some statutory
requirements where we're
not allowed to do it until
certain dates, but they're
coming as fast as
those dates come.
We've opened it up and
it's made a big difference
for the farmer, for the
homebuilder, for so many,
and for the manufacturers.
That's why we want to
ensure the integrity of
the Made in America label.
My administration is
committed to working with
the private sector to
ensure the protection of
Made in America and the
label through efforts like
certification, greater
transparency, and stricter
enforcement efforts by
agencies like the Federal
Trade Commission.
We will have zero
tolerance for illegal
counterfeiting, piracy,
theft, or intellectual
property and they really:
they take our intellectual
property like we're
a bunch of babies.
But no longer, and false
claims that a product is
Made in America and, as
time goes by, the value of
Made in America is going
to be greater and greater.
So you're going to see
more and more of this.
There was a time when
people didn't want to use
that name, and they
wouldn't take that name.
Now they're taking it,
and that's because we've
become very proud
of it again.
Around the world the Made
in America label is the
gold standard for
craftsmanship, quality,
and artistry, and that is
one more reason why we
have to protect it.
I mean, we have to protect
it, not for you, not for
me, but for your children,
for your grandchildren,
because that's
what happening.
So we must protect it from
illegal theft and from abuse.
Made in America movement
is growing rapidly under
my administration, and
we're more determined than
ever to protect our jobs,
our industry, and our workers.
Every day we are putting
America first and, as you
know, during our
campaign I had a slogan.
A few of you may
have heard it.
It's called Make
America Great Again.
Did you ever
hear that slogan?
I think so.
Mike has.
(applause)
And I want to thank
our great Michael.
Thank you Michael for
being here, by the way,
and Secretary Acosta is
here, and you have done a
fantastic job in a very
short period of time, and
I know you're going to say
a few words, so why don't
you go ahead?
Thank you Mr. Secretary.
Secretary Alex Acosta:
Mr. President, thank you,
and thank you for
your leadership.
While we were waiting for
you to walk in, we had
short conversations, and I
just wanted to tell you a
few things that I heard
from your guests here today.
American workers are
the best in the world.
American workers
are passionate.
Made in America matters
because when products are
Made in America, Americans
care about what they're doing.
They care about the
products because they know
the product impacts
American lives, and so
those are examples of what
your guests here told me,
and I think examples of
why Made in America is so
important to this nation,
to the economy, and to
this nation's workers.
And so thank you for your
leadership on this issue.
President Donald Trump:
Thank you very much.
So what label do you like
better: Made in America or
Made in the
U.S.A.? Tell me.
Think about it.
Male Speaker: U.S.A.
President Donald Trump:
What do you like better:
Made in America or
Made in the U.S.A.?
Male Speaker:
Made in the U.S.A.
President Donald Trump:
What do you like?
Secretary, how you feel?
Secretary Alex Acosta: I
think Made in America is
what we've been
talking about.
It's known throughout the world, and Made in America works.
President Donald Trump:
It used to be Made in the
U.S.A., I think,
the label.
It was on a car.
You know, they were
telling me that in
Czechoslovakia and other
communist countries many
years ago they were so
proud of a car if it was
made in the United States.
They used to take a single
dollar, and they'd scotch
tape it up to their
windshield, just to show
an American dollar, and
that was a long time ago.
But that's what they
used to do, and maybe
somebody's going to be
doing that in the future.
How do you feel Michael?
Made in the U.S.A.
or Made in America?
Mike Lindell: I feel Made
in the U.S.A., but I've
done both, but my ads are
all Made in the U.S.A.
(inaudible).
That's the way I feel.
I just --
The President:
How many pillows did you
make last year in the USA?
Mike Lindell: Ten million.
The President:
That's, I mean, can you imagine?
Mike Lindell: Last year:
thirty million so far.
(laughter)
The President:
Thirty million since --
that's fantastic.
I know it's amazing.
I heard it's amazing.
Peter, what do you like?
Peter Navarro: I love Made
in America because it fits
in with our Buy American,
Hire American, the two
simple rules of the
Trump administration.
The President:
Okay, what does the media
like?
Do you like Made in
America or Made in the
U.S.A.
Steve?
What do you like?
Made in America or
Made in the U.S.A.?
Male Speaker: (inaudible)
President Donald
Trump: Either way.
They're so quiet
all of a sudden.
(laughter)
The President:
Well, you make your
decision.
I think specifically
Made in the U.S.A.
was what they had,
But either is
great or both.
I mean, you could really
go both, although I think
we're probably like to --
what do you like Mike?
The Vice President:
I like Made in America.
That's just what I've
always thought and, you
know, make America
great again.
You've got to make it in
America, and I like that.
I like (inaudible).
The President:
Okay, good, very good.
Are you going to
show me some things?
Let's go.
Do you want to
start Michael?
Mike Lindell.
(inaudible)
The President:
I think they're going to
show some of the product.
Mike Lindell.
Oh, yeah, okay.
Well, this is My Pillow.
I have over 1,500
employees now and I'm very
proud that every part,
even the cotton is grown
in the U.S.A., and my call
center is right outside my door.
I think that's another
thing: having all of them
employed here.
Everyone has a passion.
It's like a family when
you have everybody
employed here and I'll
tell you: the businesses
-- I had a thing once
where I heard a snowmobile
company that left the
United States for overseas.
Do you know how many
companies followed that company?
You have the bolts that
make the bolts, the
fasteners, the seats; all
these things, and with my
pillow, with any companies
made here, you affect so
many other companies.
So it just spreads.
It's just amazing.
President Donald
Trump: Great job.
I'm proud of you.
Eric Paulsen:
Representative Eric
Paulsen from Minnesota,
and I sleep on a My Pillow
every night, and I
have the privilege --
(laughter)
-- of representing a lot
of Michael's workers right
home in Minnesota.
The President:
And a great representative too.
Stephanie MacDonald: Good
afternoon Mr. President.
My name is Stephanie
MacDonald, and I am the
cofounder of
Authenticity 50.
We are the only company
making 100 percent seed to
stitch lux bedding
here in America.
As we like to
say, here we go.
As we like to say, we're
bringing it back to
America one sheet set at a
time, and we sure do hope
to have our bedding in
the white house one day.
(laughter)
The President: It
sounds like a very good idea.
Jimmy MacDonald: And
I'm Jimmy Mac Donald.
I'm the other cofounder of
Authenticity 50, but let's
be honest: she's the boss.
(laughter)
I've learned that much.
David Costello: Mr.
President, Mr. Vice
President, Secretary
Acosta, thank you so much
for doing this.
This is a remarkable
event, and it's showing
true leadership in making
America great again.
We really appreciate
what you're doing.
I'm David Costello.
I serve as the executive
director of the Warrior
Protection and
Readiness Coalition.
We are the companies and
manufacturers of your body
armor, your ballistic
helmets, your combat
clothing, your combat
boots for our armed
forces, and all of that is
100 percent American made
from the fiber forward.
So we employ thousands of
people around the United
States, in every state in
this nation, and one of
the things we want to talk
about today is the federal
government does not buy
all American made products
in some of the agencies.
We're working with Doctor
Navarro on an effort where
to get to the Department
of Homeland Security to
buy American-made
products.
This is a border
patrol uniform that's
manufactured in Mexico,
and we think perhaps it
might be a better idea to
have these made in the
United States.
President Donald
Trump: Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Matt Colligan: My name
is Matt Colligan,
out of Hudson, Ohio.
I own a leaf filter
gutter protection.
We manufacture and install
leaf filter gutter protection.
So it keeps all the leaves
and debris out of your gutters.
So we employ over 1,300
people out of 38 offices
all over the country, and
they also wanted me to
mention that I
own a NASCAR team.
So I don't know anything
more American than leaf
filter gutter
protection and NASCAR.
(laughter)
The President:
So let me ask you.
The width of a gutter
changes a little bit so
you make different widths?
Matt Colligan:
It does change.
So we've --
The President: So
what does it go to: small
side, big side?
What does it go
to on a house?
Matt Colligan: We do three
inch and then it goes up
to eight inches.
So one of the things we're
doing is we're developing
new products to be able
to fit some of the gutter
styles up in
the Northwest.
I have an office up in
Seattle, but as far as
like Oregon and Northern
California, we're not able
to go there yet just
because of our product
doesn't fit those
type of gutters.
But we're developing
products.
We manufacture our
products out of Plainwell,
Michigan, which is north
of Kalamazoo, and we're
going to open a plant down
in Louisville, Kentucky.
The President:
That's great; two great places.
Thank you very much.
Matt Colligan: Thank you.
Mark Gracey [spelled
phonetically]: Thank you
Mr. President.
My name is Mark Gracey,
president and founder of
Bully Tools [spelled
phonetically].
We manufacture rakes,
shovels, hoes.
We have a product line
of about 200 products.
Our first factory is
in Steubenville, Ohio.
We're about to announce in
the next couple of months
the opening of a second
factory, location
to be finalized.
I'm feeling a little bit
like Forrest Gump today
with a clip posted
on Facebook.
I was here on Monday
as well, so I've been posting.
I feel like Forrest Gump,
I'm back in the White
House again.
(laughter)
President Donald
Trump: That's great.
(laughter)
So is business better
since we got elected,
since November 8?
Mark Gracey: My confidence
in the future is much
stronger under this
administration, and that's
why I'm investing in
opening up a second factory.
The President:That's great.
A lot of people feel that.
Mark Gracey: And by the
way, with stepping on his
message, if the GSA would
stop buying foreign-made
shovels, maybe I'd
open a third factory.
The President:
Well, we're going to have
to look at that.
That's a good point.
Absolutely.
Mark Gracey: And
years ago I applied --
The President:
Let's look at that Peter.
Peter Navarro: That's
why we're here today.
The President:
Okay, good, thank you.
Go ahead.
Sara Irvani: Hello, my
name is Sara Irvani.
I'm CEO of
Okabashi Brands.
We're an American-made
footwear company, and we
actually make the most
comfortable flip-flops and
sandals, and welcome
you all to try a pair.
And we're based in
Buford, Georgia.
The President:
Thank you very much: beautiful.
Kimberly Falconhand : Hi,
I'm Kimberly Falconhand.
I'm the president
of Okabashi Brands.
So I'm the other half of
the tag team here, so also
representing the most
comfortable flip-flops.
The President:
Thank you very much.
Claudia Tenney: Thank
you Mr. President.
I'm Representative Claudia
Tenney from upstate New
York, a fellow New Yorker.
We are so grateful for
your leadership and that
you are the president
and our first Republican
President since
Teddy Roosevelt.
I want to tell you I had
the great fortune of
touring Sherrill
Manufacturing last year, a
factory that was taken
over by these two
phenomenal entrepreneurs,
and at your inaugural
speech I listened and
I wrote down something
really important
that you said.
You said, "Americans know
a different reality as
they see rusted out
factories scattered like
tombstones across the
landscape," and I typed it
in on my cell phone
because we couldn't have
any papers out there, and
I thought this is exactly
what we have at
Sherrill Manufacturing.
And these two gentlemen
are the only flatware
manufacturer in the
nation, and they have been
approved for contracting,
but I want to just say
that I do have a bill that
I've put in that we'd love
to have your support on.
It's called
the Spoons Act.
It took a little work
to come up with that.
It's support procurement
of our nation's
Stainless Steel Act.
The President:Good.
Claudia Tenney: And now
we'd love to have your
support so we can
continue to have --
The President:
Good, I'll look at that.
Claudia Tenney: --
Sherrill Manufacturing
thrive and we'd love to
have you visit Sherrill.
There was a parking lot
with over 2,400 cars that
were once Oneida employees
and there's a lot of room
there for Marine
One to land.
The President:That's great.
Thank you.
Claudia Tenney: Thank you.
We'd love to
have you there.
Thank you so much.
I'm grateful to the
vice president as well.
The President:Thank you.
Claudia Tenney: Thank you.
Greg Owens: Thank you very
much for the invitation.
My name is Greg Owens,
and this is Matt Roberts.
We are cofounders,
president and the CEO of
Sherrill Manufacturing.
Our brand is
Liberty Tabletop.
We sell flatware.
We are the only flatware
manufacturer
in the United States.
The President:
That's incredible.
What happened?
Greg Owens: Well,
everybody else went
overseas, chasing
cheap labor.
The President:
That's terrible.
I'm not surprised, but
it is really somewhat
surprising when
you say the only.
That's a hell
of a statement.
Greg Owens: And our slogan
is 100 percent
Made in America.
The President:
Yeah, that's great.
Greg Owens: So
we like that.
We use American steel
melted and manufactured
right here in the
United States.
The President:Great job.
Mike, would you like
to say something,
vice president?
The Vice President : Well, thank you
Mr. President.
I just wanted to welcome
all these great job
creators and
entrepreneurs.
I think you all can tell
that this country has a
President who loves people
who make things and who
grow things, and I just
want to assure you that
whatever we call it, Made
in America, is not a slogan.
It's a mission for this
President and this
administration, and we're
not going to stop until we
make Made in
America great again.
The President:Thank you Mike.
Carter Beard: Mr.
President, Mr. Vice
President, Doctor Navarro,
Secretary Acosta, thank
you for having me here.
I'm Carter Beard.
I'm the president and CEO
of Annin Flag Makers.
We make American flags,
state, and international
flags.
We were founded in New
York City in 1847.
I'm the sixth
generation president.
We have approximately
700 employee flag makers
making our product and our
factories in South Boston,
Virginia, Cobbs Creek,
Virginia, Shockton, Ohio,
and Gilladdsville
[spelled phonetically],
Pennsylvania, just a few
miles from the Hill School
in Pottstown.
The President:
That's a good school.
By the way, we have the
governor of Indiana here.
Where is Eric?
Where is he?
He's around
here somewhere.
There he is.
(applause)
Can't miss him.
Great job.
You're doing a great job.
Thank you Eric.
Margarita Mendoza: Good
afternoon Mr. President,
Mr. Vice President.
Thank you so much for
declaring this week Made
in America Week, and
helping to celebrate the
small brands making
it in America.
My name is
Margarita Mendoza.
I am the founder of the
Made in America movement,
and we believe in order
for Americans to make it
in America we have to
make it in America.
Thank you.
The President:
Thank you very much.
Kurt Uhlir: Thank you
for the invitation,
Mr. President.
My name is Kurt Uhlir.
I'm the chairman of the
Made in America movement,
and it's an honor to be
part of not just this
organization, but your
movement you have here.
We represent 20,000
American-made companies:
the mothers, the fathers
that work for those
companies, and we're
honored to do that and to
be here today.
The President:
Thank you, great job.
Frank Lucas: Mr.
President, Congressman
Frank Lucas, third
district of Oklahoma.
The President:Yes, hi Frank.
Frank Lucas: I represent
Robert here and I work for
him, and we are known
as Americans around the world.
So, once we reclaim our
markets at home, we need
to move our American
products into the world
again too.
The President:
Right, thank you Frank.
Rob Flory: I'm Rob Flory.
I'm the CEO and founder of
BlankSlate Coasters, and
although we don't have
a bill in place yet,
(inaudible) New
York for the Silver.
I hope for working on one.
We just got back from a
Made in America event two
weeks ago at Wal-Mart
where they turned our
company from 200,000
coasters to 212,000 a month.
So they're doing a great
job with Made in America
as well, and we're just
delighted to be here.
We're out of
Stillwater, Oklahoma.
The President:
Well, thank you very much.
Great to have you.
Greg Maguire: Mr.
President, my name is
Greg Maguire
from Revision.
I'd like to thank you very
much for your support of
American manufacturers,
and Mr. Vice President,
Secretary Acosta, Doctor
Navarro, and we really do
appreciate that.
I'd like to
introduce our CEO.
John Blanche: Thank
you Mr. President.
It's great to be here.
My name is John Blanche.
I'm the founder and CEO of
a company
called Revision Military.
We are the developers,
designers, and
manufacturers of the
world's best protective
equipment for the world's
best military and law
enforcement globally.
Recently we won the U.S.
Army contract for the
next generation helmet.
This is 24 percent lighter
weight than the current helmet.
We think it's going to
save a lot of lives.
It's a real
pleasure to be here.
The President:
Thank you very much.
Matt Bell: Good
afternoon Mr. President.
It's a pleasure
to be here.
My name is Matt Bell.
I'm from Northeast
Pellets.
We're located in
rural Ashland, Maine.
We manufacture wood
pellets for heating, for
residential, commercial,
and institutional heating.
They're available in 25,
40 pound bags, as well as
one ton sacks
and loose bulk.
We have a 40 pound bag
here on display, and all
of our fiber is purchased
from local sawmills right
in the greater
Ashland area.
The President:Thank you.
Matt Bell: Thank you.
Sean Bandawat : Mr.
President, Mr. Vice
President, I'm Sean
Bandawat, president of the
Bromwell Company,
based in Los Angeles.
We are the oldest
manufacturer of
kitchenware and houseware
products in the United
States, founded in 1819.
We produce a full line
of handcrafted copper
products like this copper
cup, and a full line of
kitchenware and bakeware
items, including
colanders, frying pans,
cookie sheets, and more.
We have two manufacturing
facilities: one in
Vermont, and one in
Indiana, and as a company
that's been in business
for 200 years, it's
estimated that one in four
American households owns a
Bromwell product.
The President:
Thank you, and Mike Kelly
our friend, and 1819:
that's a pretty old
company.
What do you think Mike?
Mike Kelly: I'll
tell you what.
These are all great
manufacturers.
The President:
These are great people.
Mike Kelly: These
are great Americans.
Absolutely.
Yeah, Mr. President, it's
so good to be with you
again, and I know with
Vice President Pence: we
sat together my first
term in Congress.
I was on foreign
affairs with him.
But I had the best time
of my life in all the 69
years was the summer of
last year when we got to
campaign and we rocked
the Keystone state.
You were able to do --
(applause)
The President:Thank you.
Mike Kelly: -- we
brought her home.
I've got to tell you.
What you are able to do
was absolutely incredible.
And so I brought with
me today a piece of
legislation.
This is a jobs bill.
It's called The Invent and
Manufacturer in America.
And I think that most of
us around the table: we're
so tired of coming up with
innovation, and we come up
with these wonderful
conceptions, but we drive
these folks off shore, and
then we blame them for leaving.
They say, "I would have
stayed if you had let me
stay home," but this piece
right here, Mr. President,
I'm going to pass
it down to you.
This is a piece that's
going to bring all those
jobs back home, and we'll
use carrots instead of sticks.
We're going to make
America great again every
single day, but I've
got to tell you.
Since the morning of
November 9, getting
through November 8, was
great, but the morning of
November 9: the skies have
never been bluer, the
winds have never been
stronger at our back, and
it's all thanks to you.
The President:Thank you Mike.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thanks Mike.
(applause)
John DeArment: Good
afternoon everybody.
Mr. President, Mr. Vice
President, thank you very
much for the privilege
and honor to be here.
My name is John DeArment.
I'm president and chief
operating officer of
Channel Lock, Inc.
You got it.
We make our genuine
channel lock pliers back
in Meadville,
Pennsylvania.
We have about 325
full-time associates that
really work hard every day
making the products, and
we think that tools like
this will help you make
America make great again.
The President:
That's a great product.
That's a beautiful
product.
Believe it or not, I
used to do this a lot.
I love it.
I love mechanical things,
but this is really, really
beautiful: high-quality.
John DeArment:
Thank you very much.
The President: It
doesn't get any better.
Thank you.
John DeArment: There are
a lot of people that work
very hard doing it.
I appreciate it.
(applause)
The President:Thank you.
So folks, I know you're
going to stay around for a
little while with my
people, but I appreciate
you being here, and we're
supportive of you totally
and Made in
America is great.
Made in the U.S.A.
is great, and we're
behind you all the way.
We're behind
you all the way.
Am I allowed to put
this in the museum?
It's got my name on it.
I figure you can't -- who
else is going to want it, right?
(laughter)
But that is
really something.
I mean, the product we
make in this country:
people don't get it.
It's great, but now we're
going to put you on that
level playing field, and
that's what you need and
nobody's going
to beat you.
Once you have the level
playing field, nobody is
going to beat you.
Thank you very much.
(applause)